It was the summer of 1989 when I was irst exposed to 
Shadowrun via a four-page preview pamphlet at my local 
game store. A few weeks later and I had purchased the 
First Edition rulebook and taken the irst steps on the 
path to what would become the greatest RPG love afair 
of my life. Wait, elves and cybernetics? Megacorporations and dragons? You can’t do that!
I spent the next nineteen years running a campaign, and for most of it we were playing weekly, every 
Monday night. here are living, breathing stories and 
characters that only exist within the minds of the few 
people that sat around that table, and any one of them 
will happily regale you with tales of the duplicitous 
machinations of a dwarf ixer named Redeye or the 
tragic end of Eddie Garrett, ex-Lone Star cop turned 
reluctant shadowrunner.
Shadowrun occupies a very special place in my heart. 
he walls and shelves of my home are covered in Shadowrun books and art, and indeed sometimes I have to 
remind myself of the countless people who have fallen 
in love with the Shadowrun world not through the classic 
tabletop role playing game, but instead through one of 
the many Shadowrun video games, or any of the more 
than ifty published novels.
But everything ends. My beloved campaign came to 
a satisfying conclusion in the fall of 2008, and while I 
have kept up with the game’s new editions and releases, 
and lirted with some short story arcs, it hasn’t returned 
to my table in any meaningful way for a while. I ind that 
my tastes have changed over the years, and while I have 
lost no love for the Shadowrun world, these days I prefer 
RPG game systems that are lighter on the rules and more 
focused on story and character. here has been a massive 
explosion of indie-style RPG game play in the last few 
years, and many people are engaging with the hobby in 
intriguing new ways. As a hobby-game retailer myself, 
I have also witnessed no shortage of gamers interested 
in playing tabletop Shadowrun but utterly intimidated 
by the massive rulebook. he fact of the matter is that 
that big black book isn’t going anywhere, and there will 
always be players who want to joyously iddle with every last glorious detail and chrome widget of rules found 
within those pages, and more power to them. I was one 
of them for a very long time.
Shadowrun has been part of our collective gaming 
consciousness for well over twenty-ive years now, and 
it’s been actively in print the whole time, something 
very few games can claim. It’s been so long in fact, that 
what was a game of a speculative future has now become 
what is veritably an alternate history game! (Since magic did not, alas, return to the world in 2011. Although 
there’s still a slim chance that my friend Warren might 
goblinize into an ork in 2018, as we’ve all long suspected 
he will, but that remains to be seen.)
Some of us shadowrunners are now getting long in 
the tooth, lacking the time to play or facilitate a game 
with such a robust and exhaustive rules set. Meanwhile, 
more collaborative storytelling-style RPGs and even 
gamemaster-free RPGs are seeing some real popularity 
as the hobby continues to grow and evolve.
hat’s where Shadowrun: Anarchy comes in. It’s lexible enough to be played as a rules-light version of a traditional roleplaying game,  or as a much more freeform 
“open table” style storytelling experience. I am incredibly pleased with what the Catalyst team has come up 
with here, and I think it has the potential to inject a